I know you all are familiar with a
marketing funnel and it it's not
entirely wrong. That's that's not what
I'm saying. But I do think the analogy
doesn't hold up like it used to. It used
to be that you know at this top
awareness stage maybe people were
searching, they were browsing, then they
got to the interest stage and they were
doing deeper research and visiting your
website and asking questions and then
the consideration they're comparing
against competitors and then they have
their evaluation and purchase process.
And today I think it works more like
this. I think it's a pinball machine. I
think basically what happens is that
people uh first they're like, "Hey, I'm
thinking about this thing. I'm gonna ask
a friend and then I'll skim some blog
post and read some news and Google it
and check out a white paper. Maybe I'll
get a demo that you know if it's
enterprise or whatever that I'll check
out my Instagram and LinkedIn and
YouTube and threads and Reddit and I'll
ask chat GPT or other AI tools and maybe
I'll subscribe to a newsletter or check
out the newsletters I do subscribe to.
Maybe the newsletter was the thing that
tipped me off to it in the first place.
And so this whole concept of a funnel is
just busted. Let me show you show you
what I mean. Let's say I'm looking for a
new bank, right? I'm I'm uh moving to
Philadelphia. Maybe I already live
there. And so I'm checking out checking
out banks and I'm like, okay, you know,
I subscribed to this asset column uh
Substack and they've got a bunch of
recommendations around things I should
look for. FDIC insured, competitive APY,
um tools, mobile checking deposit, sure,
of course, fraud protection. All right,
this is it's a little basic, but it gets
me there. So then since I did the
sleepout personally in in Philadelphia
recently at the Citizens Bank Park,
which is like their the where the
Philadelphia Phillies baseball team
plays, I'm going to check them out. So I
I go and check out Citizens Bank
interest rate, right? This is another
another bounce. I'm like, okay, well,
their private client money market has 3%
and 3.35%.
Uh, you know, I don't know whether
that's good or not. I'm going to ask
around on Reddit or see what somebody
else asked. And there's some
recommendations in here. And then you
know what? Someone suggested Bank Rate.
I'll go to Bank Rate and I'll bounce
around and see what they offer. Wow, 4%.
That sounds way higher. Maybe I should
be checking that those guys out. So then
I'm going to ask my buddy Will. I was
like, "Uh, yo, hey Will." Oops. Uh, hey
Will, any Philly banks you recommend?
I'm not actually gonna send him that
message. And then I'm like, "Oh, you
know, I should check if they actually
have one in the neighborhood I'm moving
to." So, I'm going to check near my uh
you know, zip code 19122.
Gosh, the ratings are super low. What
are the reviews about?
The lines are long and the debit
machines don't work. Okay, this doesn't
tell me much about the APY. That's kind
of the thing that I care about. So, then
I'm going to go and check out Citizens
Money Market accounts on their website.
And then I'm going to Do you see what's
happening? Do you see what's happening?
Right? Like I I am bouncing and bouncing
and bouncing. And the process is wild.
The process is absolutely crazy.
Understanding this this concept that
human beings do not behave in the clean
funnel sense that you want and that you
can't just choose a couple of channels.
You you need to be in the places that
your audience pays attention, right? And
so I mean this is what Spark Toro
focuses on. So I look for like
Philadelphia area high rate bank deposit
seekers and then I'm like, "Okay, who
are they and which platforms are they
on?" funny enough, like, oh yeah,
Substack. I guess that makes good sense
because, hey, I I also started my
journey with Substack. That was the
thing that kind of nudged me there. And
so this this entire process makes me
think of this meme, which was originally
shared, I think, by Adam Singer, which
is like, oh no, we need an econometrics
model to evaluate which inputs
contributed to which sales and this
whole process. But you can't measure
this stuff. You're never going to
measure an appearance on a podcast.
you're never going to be able to
properly measure the value of, you know,
Citizens Bank, uh, having their branding
on the Philadelphia Philly stadium,
right? Which was the thing that inspired
me to look them up. You got to reach the
right people in the right places with
the right message. If your bank is
trying to compete on locations and
friendliness of tellers and short lines
and debit machines, well, then you
should be worried about those Google
Maps reviews I showed you. And if
instead you're like, "No, I'm I'm
targeting these highinterest seekers,
well then you should be in these places
like Substack and potentially Twitter
and probably on YouTube and in Reddit,
and you should make sure that in the,
you know, personal finance subreddit,
which it suggests is a is a high uh
affinity one, that that you're present
in that place. And you should be pushing
that same message over and over again,
which is not, you know, whatever short
lines and debit card machines, but is
instead high uh yield savings accounts,
high yield money market accounts. And
those messages in the places that your
audience actually pays attention is the
new way to do this old funnel
methodology. Like this this system has
transformed into this system. this
pinball methodology and marketers I
think we have to catch up by putting the
right message in the right place for the
right audience.